WE WERE ALL VILLAINS in the beginning.
For hundreds of years, prodigies were feared by the rest of the world. We
became hunted. Tormented. Feared and oppressed. We were believed to be
witches and demons, freaks and abominations. We were stoned and hanged
and set afire while crowds gathered to watch with cruel eyes, proud to be
ridding the world of one more pariah. They were right to be afraid.
Hundreds of years. Who would have stood for it?
Ace Anarchy changed everything. He united the most powerful prodigies
he could find and together they rebelled.
He started with the infrastructure. Government buildings torn from their
foundations. Banks and stock exchanges turned to rubble. Bridges ripped
from the sky. Entire freeways reduced to rocky wastelands. When the military
sent jets, he plucked them from the air like moths. When they sent tanks, he
crushed them like aluminum cans.
Then he went after the people who had failed him. Failed all of them.
Whole governments, gone. Law enforcement, disbanded. Those fancy
bureaucrats who had bought their way into power and influence … all dead,
and all in a matter of weeks.
The Anarchists cared little for what would come next once the old world
crumbled. They cared only for change, and they got it. Soon, a number of
villain gangs began to crawl out from society’s ashes, each hungry for their
own slice of power, and it wasn’t long before Ace Anarchy’s influence spread
across the globe. Prodigies banded together for the first time in history, some
full of wrath and resentment, others desperate for acceptance that never
came. They demanded fair treatment and human rights and protection under
the law, and in some countries, the panicking governments hastened to cater
to them. But in other countries, the rebellions turned violent, and the violence
dissolved into anarchy.
Chaos rose up to fill the void that civilized society had left behind. Trade
and manufacturing ground to a halt. Civil wars erupted on every continent.
Gatlon City was largely cut off from the world, and the fear and distrust that
prevailed would go on to rule for twenty years. They call it the Age of Anarchy.
Looking back now, people talk about the Anarchists and the other gangs
like they were the worst part of those twenty years, but they weren’t. Sure,
everyone was terrified of them, but they mostly left you alone as long as you
paid up when it was your due and didn’t cause them any trouble.
But the people. The normal people. They were far worse. With no rule and
no law, it became every man, woman, and child for themselves. There were no
repercussions for crimes or violence—no one to run to if you were beaten or
robbed. No police. No prisons. Not legitimate ones, anyway. Neighbors stole
from neighbors. Stores were looted and supplies were hoarded, leaving
children to starve in the gutters. It became the strong against the weak, and,
as it turns out, the strong were usually jerks.
Humanity loses faith in times like that. With no one to look up to, no one to
believe in, we all became rats scrounging in the sewers.
Maybe Ace really was a villain. Or maybe he was a visionary.
Maybe there’s not much of a difference.
Either way, the gangs ruled Gatlon City for twenty years, while crime and
vice spread like sewage around a backed-up pipe. And the Age of Anarchy
might have gone on for another twenty years. Fifty years. An eternity.
But then, seemingly overnight … hope.
Bright and sparkling hope, dressed up in capes and masks.
Beautiful and joyous hope, promising to solve all your problems, rain
justice down upon your foes, and probably give a stern talking to a few
jaywalkers along the way.
Warm and promising hope, encouraging the normal folks to stay inside
where it was safe while they fixed everything. Don’t worry about helping
yourselves. You’ve got enough on your plate, what with all the hiding and
moping you’ve been doing lately. You take a day off. We’re superheroes.
We’ve got this. Hope called themselves the Renegades.
